README.md, before:

# Financial Planner MCP Server

## @mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides intelligent financial planning capabilities using **Scripbox's proven financial planning algorithms**. This server enables AI assistants to help users calculate SIP requirements, investment planning, and goal achievement strategies.

## Features

- **🎯 Goal-Based Financial Planning**: Calculate exact SIP requirements for specific financial goals
- **📊 Powered by Scripbox**: Uses Scripbox's battle-tested financial planning engine and algorithms
- **💡 AI-Friendly**: Simple, intuitive interface optimized for AI assistant interactions
- **🔄 Real-time Calculations**: Get instant financial projections and investment strategies
- **📈 Comprehensive Analysis**: Detailed breakdown of required investments, future values, and goal timelines

## How It Works

This MCP server acts as a bridge between AI assistants and Scripbox's financial planning API (`https://invest.scripbox.com/api/possibility/new`). It transforms simple user inputs into comprehensive financial plans using Scripbox's sophisticated algorithms.

## Usage

### With Claude Desktop/Code

**Quick Install Command:**
```bash
claude mcp add financial-planner --scope local -- npx -y @mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp
```

Or manually add to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "Financial Planner": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### With Cursor/Cline/Other MCP Clients

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "Financial Planner": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone and setup
git clone <repository>
cd financial-planner-mcp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the project
npm run build

# Run in development mode
npm run dev
```

## Available Tools 🛠️

### `financial_planner`

Transform financial goals into actionable investment strategies using Scripbox's proven algorithms.

**Input Parameters:**
- `goal_name` (string): Name of your financial goal (e.g., "Child Education", "Dream Home")
- `goal_amount` (number): Target amount needed in INR
- `goal_date` (string): When you need the money (YYYY-MM-DD format)
- `current_wealth` (number, optional): Existing investments/savings in INR (default: 0)
- `monthly_inflow` (number, optional): How much you can invest monthly in INR (default: 0)
- `priority` (optional): Goal priority - "Low", "Medium", "High" (default: "Medium")
- `inflation_rate` (optional): Expected inflation rate as decimal, e.g., 0.06 for 6% (default: 0)
- `return_rate` (optional): Expected investment return as decimal, e.g., 0.12 for 12% (default: 0)
- `investment_start_date` (optional): When to start investing (defaults to today)

**Example Usage with AI Assistant:**

*"I want to save ₹20 lakhs for my child's education by June 2030. I currently have ₹2 lakhs invested and can save ₹15,000 monthly. Assume 6% inflation and 12% returns."*

**What You Get Back:**

The tool returns comprehensive financial planning data including:

- **💰 Required Monthly SIP**: Exact amount you need to invest monthly
- **📈 Future Value Projections**: How your investments will grow over time  
- **⏰ Investment Timeline**: Start date, end date, and key milestones
- **📊 Shortfall Analysis**: Gap between your goal and current trajectory
- **🏦 Portfolio Breakdown**: How different sources contribute to your goal
- **🎯 Multiple Investment Scenarios**: Present value, future value, and end-of-investment calculations

**Sample Response Structure:**
```json
{
  "monthly_investment": 83400,
  "computed_sip_investment": 83333.33,
  "total_goal_amount": 2000000,
  "investment_start_date": "2025-08-13",
  "investment_end_date": "2030-05-01",
  "total_shortfall_amount": 1800000,
  "computed_monthly_investment_future": 85234.56,
  "current_portfolio_contribution": {
    "amount": 200000,
    "return_rate": 0.12
  }
}
```

## Powered by Scripbox 🚀

This MCP server leverages **Scripbox's financial planning API**, which powers their award-winning financial planning platform used by thousands of investors across India. The algorithms account for:

- **Inflation Impact**: Automatic adjustment for future value of money
- **Market Volatility**: Realistic return assumptions and risk modeling  
- **Goal Prioritization**: Smart allocation strategies for multiple goals
- **Tax Efficiency**: Optimized investment structures
- **Flexible Planning**: Handles various investment scenarios and timelines

## Example Conversations with AI

**User**: *"Help me plan for buying a house worth ₹1 crore in 5 years. I have ₹10 lakhs saved and can invest ₹25,000 monthly."*

**AI Response**: *"I'll help you create a financial plan for your house purchase goal using the financial planner. Let me calculate the optimal investment strategy..."*

**User**: *"What if I can only save ₹20,000 per month instead?"*

**AI Response**: *"Let me recalculate your financial plan with the reduced monthly investment..."*

## Technical Details

- **API Endpoint**: Uses Scripbox's `/api/possibility/new` endpoint
- **Protocol**: Model Context Protocol (MCP) 1.0
- **Transport**: STDIO (with future support for SSE/HTTP)
- **Validation**: Full input/output validation using Zod schemas
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling and user-friendly messages

## API Endpoints Used

- `POST https://invest.scripbox.com/api/possibility/new` - Scripbox's financial planning calculations engine

## Roadmap 🛣️

**Phase 1** (Current): Financial Planning
- ✅ Goal-based SIP calculations
- ✅ Investment timeline planning
- ✅ Shortfall analysis


## Contributing

This project is designed to help people make better financial decisions through AI-assisted planning. Contributions are welcome!

## License

MIT License - Feel free to use this for personal or commercial projects.

---

*Built with ❤️ for the financial planning community. Powered by Scripbox's proven algorithms.*

Commit message:

Add version clarification in README
- Note that command uses latest version automatically (v1.0.4)
- Provide explicit version command for troubleshooting
- Clarify that users always get the latest working version

README.md, after:

# Financial Planner MCP Server

## @mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides intelligent financial planning capabilities using **Scripbox's proven financial planning algorithms**. This server enables AI assistants to help users calculate SIP requirements, investment planning, and goal achievement strategies.

## Features

- **🎯 Goal-Based Financial Planning**: Calculate exact SIP requirements for specific financial goals
- **📊 Powered by Scripbox**: Uses Scripbox's battle-tested financial planning engine and algorithms
- **💡 AI-Friendly**: Simple, intuitive interface optimized for AI assistant interactions
- **🔄 Real-time Calculations**: Get instant financial projections and investment strategies
- **📈 Comprehensive Analysis**: Detailed breakdown of required investments, future values, and goal timelines

## How It Works

This MCP server acts as a bridge between AI assistants and Scripbox's financial planning API (`https://invest.scripbox.com/api/possibility/new`). It transforms simple user inputs into comprehensive financial plans using Scripbox's sophisticated algorithms.

## Usage

### With Claude Desktop/Code

**Quick Install Command:**
```bash
claude mcp add financial-planner --scope local -- npx -y @mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp
```

> **Note**: The command automatically uses the latest version (currently v1.0.4). If you encounter issues, you can specify the version explicitly: `npx -y @mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp@1.0.4`

Or manually add to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "Financial Planner": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### With Cursor/Cline/Other MCP Clients

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "Financial Planner": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@mohanputti/financial-planner-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone and setup
git clone <repository>
cd financial-planner-mcp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the project
npm run build

# Run in development mode
npm run dev
```

## Available Tools 🛠️

### `financial_planner`

Transform financial goals into actionable investment strategies using Scripbox's proven algorithms.

**Input Parameters:**
- `goal_name` (string): Name of your financial goal (e.g., "Child Education", "Dream Home")
- `goal_amount` (number): Target amount needed in INR
- `goal_date` (string): When you need the money (YYYY-MM-DD format)
- `current_wealth` (number, optional): Existing investments/savings in INR (default: 0)
- `monthly_inflow` (number, optional): How much you can invest monthly in INR (default: 0)
- `priority` (optional): Goal priority - "Low", "Medium", "High" (default: "Medium")
- `inflation_rate` (optional): Expected inflation rate as decimal, e.g., 0.06 for 6% (default: 0)
- `return_rate` (optional): Expected investment return as decimal, e.g., 0.12 for 12% (default: 0)
- `investment_start_date` (optional): When to start investing (defaults to today)

**Example Usage with AI Assistant:**

*"I want to save ₹20 lakhs for my child's education by June 2030. I currently have ₹2 lakhs invested and can save ₹15,000 monthly. Assume 6% inflation and 12% returns."*

**What You Get Back:**

The tool returns comprehensive financial planning data including:

- **💰 Required Monthly SIP**: Exact amount you need to invest monthly
- **📈 Future Value Projections**: How your investments will grow over time  
- **⏰ Investment Timeline**: Start date, end date, and key milestones
- **📊 Shortfall Analysis**: Gap between your goal and current trajectory
- **🏦 Portfolio Breakdown**: How different sources contribute to your goal
- **🎯 Multiple Investment Scenarios**: Present value, future value, and end-of-investment calculations

**Sample Response Structure:**
```json
{
  "monthly_investment": 83400,
  "computed_sip_investment": 83333.33,
  "total_goal_amount": 2000000,
  "investment_start_date": "2025-08-13",
  "investment_end_date": "2030-05-01",
  "total_shortfall_amount": 1800000,
  "computed_monthly_investment_future": 85234.56,
  "current_portfolio_contribution": {
    "amount": 200000,
    "return_rate": 0.12
  }
}
```

## Powered by Scripbox 🚀

This MCP server leverages **Scripbox's financial planning API**, which powers their award-winning financial planning platform used by thousands of investors across India. The algorithms account for:

- **Inflation Impact**: Automatic adjustment for future value of money
- **Market Volatility**: Realistic return assumptions and risk modeling  
- **Goal Prioritization**: Smart allocation strategies for multiple goals
- **Tax Efficiency**: Optimized investment structures
- **Flexible Planning**: Handles various investment scenarios and timelines

## Example Conversations with AI

**User**: *"Help me plan for buying a house worth ₹1 crore in 5 years. I have ₹10 lakhs saved and can invest ₹25,000 monthly."*

**AI Response**: *"I'll help you create a financial plan for your house purchase goal using the financial planner. Let me calculate the optimal investment strategy..."*

**User**: *"What if I can only save ₹20,000 per month instead?"*

**AI Response**: *"Let me recalculate your financial plan with the reduced monthly investment..."*

## Technical Details

- **API Endpoint**: Uses Scripbox's `/api/possibility/new` endpoint
- **Protocol**: Model Context Protocol (MCP) 1.0
- **Transport**: STDIO (with future support for SSE/HTTP)
- **Validation**: Full input/output validation using Zod schemas
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling and user-friendly messages

## API Endpoints Used

- `POST https://invest.scripbox.com/api/possibility/new` - Scripbox's financial planning calculations engine

## Roadmap 🛣️

**Phase 1** (Current): Financial Planning
- ✅ Goal-based SIP calculations
- ✅ Investment timeline planning
- ✅ Shortfall analysis


## Contributing

This project is designed to help people make better financial decisions through AI-assisted planning. Contributions are welcome!

## License

MIT License - Feel free to use this for personal or commercial projects.

---

*Built with ❤️ for the financial planning community. Powered by Scripbox's proven algorithms.*
